README.md, before:

# CLI Tools LSP Server and/or Pygls Starting Template

This project has 2 goals.

1. A generic LSP server that parses CLI tools, or indeed any program that outputs to STDOUT, such as  linters, formatters, style checkers, etc and converts their output to LSP-compatible behaviour.
2. An easily-forkable template to start your own custom LSP server using [Pygls](https://github.com/openlawlibrary/pygls).

Because the heavy-lifting of this language server is done by external tooling (think `pylint`, `jq`, `markdownlint`, etc), there is minimal implementation-specific code in this repo. That is to say that the majority of the code here is applicable to any language server built with Pygls. Or at the very least, it demonstrates a reasonable starting point. Deleting the `src/lsp/custom` folder should leave the codebase as close as possible to the minimum starting point for your own custom language server. You will also want to rename occurences of `[C|c]ustom` to your own language server's name.

## Usage

### Example Neovim Lua config

```lua
clitool_configs = {
	{
		language_id = "markdown",
		command = { "markdownlint", "--stdin" },
		parsing = {
			formats = {
				"stdin:{line:d}:{col:d} {msg}",
				"stdin:{line:d} {msg}",
				"stdin {msg}",
			},
			line_offset = -1,
			col_offset = -1,
		},
	},
	{
		language_id = "json",
		command = { "jq", "." },
		parsing = {
			formats = { "{msg} at line {line:d}, column {col:d}" },
		},
	},
},
```

## Testing

`poetry run python -m pytest`

## Other generic LSP servers

* https://github.com/iamcco/diagnostic-languageserver
* https://github.com/mattn/efm-langserver
* https://github.com/jose-elias-alvarez/null-ls.nvim (Neovim only)

Commit message:

chore: First E2E tests thanks to pytest-lsp!

README.md, after:

# CLI Tools LSP Server and/or Pygls Starting Template

This project has 2 goals.

1. A generic LSP server that parses CLI tools, or indeed any program that outputs to STDOUT, such as  linters, formatters, style checkers, etc and converts their output to LSP-compatible behaviour.
2. An easily-forkable template to start your own custom LSP server using [Pygls](https://github.com/openlawlibrary/pygls).

Because the heavy-lifting of this language server is done by external tooling (think `pylint`, `jq`, `markdownlint`, etc), there is minimal implementation-specific code in this repo. That is to say that the majority of the code here is applicable to any language server built with Pygls. Or at the very least, it demonstrates a reasonable starting point. Deleting the `src/lsp/custom` folder should leave the codebase as close as possible to the minimum starting point for your own custom language server. You will also want to rename occurrences of `[C|c]ustom` to your own language server's name.

## Usage

### Example Neovim Lua config

```lua
clitool_configs = {
	{
		language_id = "markdown",
		command = { "markdownlint", "--stdin" },
		parsing = {
			formats = {
				"stdin:{line:d}:{col:d} {msg}",
				"stdin:{line:d} {msg}",
				"stdin {msg}",
			},
			line_offset = -1,
			col_offset = -1,
		},
	},
	{
		language_id = "json",
		command = { "jq", "." },
		parsing = {
			formats = { "{msg} at line {line:d}, column {col:d}" },
		},
	},
},
```

## Testing

Uses [@alcarney](https://github.com/alcarney)'s [pytest-lsp module](https://github.com/alcarney/lsp-devtools/tree/develop/lib/pytest-lsp) for end-to-end testing.

`poetry run python -m pytest`

## Acknowledgements

This projects takes a lot of inspiration from [@alcarney](https://github.com/alcarney)'s fantastic Sphinx/RST LSP server [Esbonio](https://github.com/swyddfa/esbonio). 

## Other generic LSP servers

* https://github.com/iamcco/diagnostic-languageserver
* https://github.com/mattn/efm-langserver
* https://github.com/jose-elias-alvarez/null-ls.nvim (Neovim only)
